# Amazon CloudWatch 
- Service used for Monitoring Real Time AWS resources and the applications that run on AWS
- CloudWatch can be used to collect and track metrics, monitor log files, set alarms and automatically react to changes in AWS resources.
- It automatically provides metrics for CPU utilisation, latency and request counts. Additional metrics can also be monitored such as memory usage, error rates etc.

## Metrics of CloudWatch
Its shows  the resource utilisation, application performance and operational health. These metrics helps in resolving technical issues and streamlining processes for smoothly running the application. Following concepts play an important role in understanding these metrics:

### 1. Namespaces
Its a container for CloudWatch metrics. Metrics in different namespaces are isolated from each other so that metrics from different applications are not accidentally aggregated for computing statistics.
### 2. Metrics
Its Represents a time ordered set of data points that are published to CloudWatch. It can be thought of as a variable that we need to monitor and the data points are the values of the variable over time. Metrics exist only in the region they are created.
### 3. Dimensions
Its a name or a value pair that uniquely identifies a metric. You can assign a maximum of 10 dimensions to a metric. Dimensions help you design a structure for your statistics plan.
### 4. Statistics
Statstics are metric data aggregation over time specified by the user. Aggregation are made using the namespace, metric name, dimensions and the data point unit of measure within the time period you specify.
### 5. Percentiles
Its a name suggests metrics, the percentile indicates the relative standing of a value in a dataset. It helps you get a better understanding of the distribution of your metric data. Percentiles are used to detect anomalies.
### 6. Alarms
Alarms are used to initiate actions on your behalf. An alarm monitors a metric over a specified interval of time, and performs the assigned actions based on the value of the metric relative to a threshold over time.


## CloudWatch Logs
1. CloudWatch Logs helps users to 
- access
-  monitor
-  store access log files from aws resources.
 2. These logs help in troubleshooting systems and applications.
 3.  CloudWatch logs are a managed service which can be provisioned with no extra purchases from within your AWS accounts. 
 4.  They are easy to work with from the AWS console or the AWS CLI.
 5.  They have deep integration with AWS services. 
 6.  They are able to trigger alerts based on certain logs occurring in the logs.

> **_Recommendation:_**   AWS recommends using the unified CloudWatch agent. When you install the agent on a EC2 instance, it automatically creates a log group as part of the process. You can also create a log group directly from the AWS console. After the CloudWatch Logs agent begins publishing log data to Amazon CloudWatch, users can begin searching and filtering data based on metric filtering.

## CloudWatch Events:
CloudWatch Events allows users to consume a near real time stream of events as changes to their AWS environment takes place. These event changes can subsequently trigger notifications or other actions. The main components of CloudWatch events are:

### 1. Events:
Events are generated in four ways.It is represented by small blobs of JSON.
-  They can arise from within AWS when a resource changes it’s state.
-   They can arise when events are generated by API calls and console sign-ins that are delivered to Amazon CloudWatch Events via CloudTrail.
-   When your own code can generate application-level events and publish them to Amazon CloudWatch Events for processing.
-    The last way is that they can be issued on a scheduled basis, with options for periodic or Cron-style scheduling.
### 2. Rules:
- Rules can match incoming events and route them to one or more targets or processing.
- Rules do not have any order for processing, all the rules matching for a particular event will be processed.
### 3. Targets:
Targets process events and are specified within the rules.
There are four initial target types:
- built-in
-  Lambda functions
-   Kinesis streams
-   SNS topics.
> **_Note:_** A single rule can specify multiple targets.

# AWS CloudTrail
This services helps to enabling governance, compliance, operational and risk auditing of AWS account. Actions taken by a user, role, or an AWS service are recorded as events in CloudTrail. Events include actions taken in the AWS Management Console, AWS Command Line Interface, and AWS SDKs and APIs.

> **_Note:_** It’s enabled when the account is created
- When activity occurs in your AWS account, that activity is recorded in a CloudTrail event.
- Entries can be viewed in Event History(for 90 days)
- Event logs can be aggregated across accounts.
## Uses of CloudTrail
### 1. Troubleshooting
Cloudtrail can be used to determine the cause of certain operational issues. For example, Cloudtrail allows you to check the event history to determine which resources were recently created, deleted or modified as well as who made these changes.
### 2. Anomaly Detection
Cloudtrail Insights allows you to detect spikes or unusual activity and set alerts.
### 3. Security compliance and risk auditing
Cloudtrail allows you to have an event history should you need to go back and check past events. For example, if it is suspected that a user account was breached, Cloudtrail can be used to review all activities performed by that user. Cloudtrail can also be used in conjunction with other services to trigger a an action in response to certain events. For example, it could detect when a user is trying to modify a security group or perform other actions not allowed by your organization and trigger a response.


# Difference between CloudWtch and CloudTrail
<table border="0">
 <tr>
    <td><b style="font-size:30px">CloudWatch</b></td>
    <td><b style="font-size:30px">CloudTrail</b></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>Monitors the AWS Resources</td>
    <td>monitor who did what within your AWS environment</td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>CloudWatch fits with visualizing and using resource metrics, analyzing logs and triggering alarms</td>
    <td>CloudTrail helps with logging activity history, security and compliance.</td>
 </tr>
  
</table>
